amazonlinux-2023/amazonlinux-2023-build-with-lld.md, before:

# How to Build Swift for Amazon Linux 2023 using LLD Linker

## Install Swift build dependencies

```sh
sudo yum -y install \
 clang \
 cmake \
 curl-devel \
 gcc-c++ \
 git \
 glibc-static \
 libbsd-devel \
 libedit-devel \
 libicu-devel \
 libuuid-devel \
 libxml2-devel \
 lld \
 ncurses-devel \
 ninja-build \
 python3-pexpect \
 pkgconfig \
 procps-ng \
 python \
 python3-devel \
 python3-six \
 python3-psutil \
 python3-pkgconfig \
 python3-pip \
 rsync \
 sqlite-devel \
 swig \
 tzdata \
 unzip \
 uuid-devel \
 wget \
 which \
 zip
```

## Clone Swift

```sh
mkdir swift-source && cd swift-source
git clone https://github.com/apple/swift.git swift
```

## Clone Supporting Repositories

```
swift/utils/update-checkout --clone
```

## Checkout Swift Version

#### Branch

```
swift/utils/update-checkout --scheme release/5.9
```

#### Tag

```
swift/utils/update-checkout --tag swift-5.9.2-RELEASE
```

## Apply Patches

#### Replace "gold" with "lld" in the following files

1. https://github.com/apple/swift/blob/main/CMakeLists.txt#L959
2. https://github.com/apple/swift/blob/main/lib/Driver/UnixToolChains.cpp#L112
3. https://github.com/apple/swift-corelibs-foundation/blob/main/lib/target.py#L345
4. https://github.com/apple/swift-driver/blob/main/Sources/SwiftDriver/Jobs/GenericUnixToolchain%2BLinkerSupport.swift#L25

#### Modify buildbot preset

1. https://github.com/apple/swift/blob/main/utils/build-presets.ini#L809

   Add the following to **[preset: mixin_linux_installation]** after the line - `mixin_linux_install_components_with_clang`

   ```ini
   ####
   extra-cmake-options=
      -DLLVM_USE_LINKER=lld
      -DSWIFT_USE_LINKER=lld

   skip-early-swift-driver
   skip-early-swiftsyntax

   bootstrapping=off
   ####
   ```
**Patches** for Swift versions 5.8 and 5.9 are available here - [patches](https://github.com/futurejones/swift-arm64/tree/master/amazonlinux-2023/patches)

## Build Swift using Buildbot Preset

```
swift/utils/build-script --preset=buildbot_linux,no_assertions,no_test install_destdir=/tmp installable_package=/tmp/swift-5.9-amazonlinux2023.tar.gz
```

## Dependencies Needed for Swift Installation

```sh
dnf -y install \
binutils \
gcc \
git \
glibc-static \
gzip \
libbsd \
libcurl-devel \
libedit \
libicu \
libstdc++-static \
libuuid \
libxml2-devel \
sqlite \
tar \
tzdata \
unzip \
zip
```

Commit message:

update patches and build instructions

amazonlinux-2023/amazonlinux-2023-build-with-lld.md, after:

# How to Build Swift for Amazon Linux 2023 using LLD Linker

## Install Swift build dependencies

```sh
sudo yum -y install \
 clang \
 cmake \
 curl-devel \
 gcc-c++ \
 git \
 glibc-static \
 libbsd-devel \
 libedit-devel \
 libicu-devel \
 libuuid-devel \
 libxml2-devel \
 lld \
 ncurses-devel \
 ninja-build \
 python3-pexpect \
 pkgconfig \
 procps-ng \
 python \
 python3-devel \
 python3-six \
 python3-psutil \
 python3-pkgconfig \
 python3-pip \
 rsync \
 sqlite-devel \
 swig \
 tzdata \
 unzip \
 uuid-devel \
 wget \
 which \
 zip
```

## Clone Swift

```sh
mkdir swift-source && cd swift-source
git clone https://github.com/apple/swift.git swift
```

## Clone Supporting Repositories

```
swift/utils/update-checkout --clone
```

## Checkout Swift Version

#### Branch

```
swift/utils/update-checkout --scheme release/5.8
```

#### Tag

```
swift/utils/update-checkout --tag swift-5.8.1-RELEASE
```

## Apply Patches

#### Replace "gold" with "lld" in the following files

1. https://github.com/apple/swift/blob/main/CMakeLists.txt#L959
2. https://github.com/apple/swift/blob/main/lib/Driver/UnixToolChains.cpp#L112
3. https://github.com/apple/swift-corelibs-foundation/blob/main/lib/target.py#L345
4. https://github.com/apple/swift-driver/blob/main/Sources/SwiftDriver/Jobs/GenericUnixToolchain%2BLinkerSupport.swift#L25

#### Modify buildbot preset

1. https://github.com/apple/swift/blob/main/utils/build-presets.ini#L809

   Add the following to **[preset: mixin_linux_installation]** after the line - `mixin_linux_install_components_with_clang`

   ```ini
   ####
   extra-cmake-options=
      -DLLVM_USE_LINKER=lld
      -DSWIFT_USE_LINKER=lld

   skip-early-swift-driver
   skip-early-swiftsyntax

   bootstrapping=off
   ####
   ```

   **Patches** for Swift versions 5.8 and 5.9 are available here - [patches](https://github.com/futurejones/swift-arm64/tree/master/amazonlinux-2023/patches)

## Build Swift using Buildbot Preset

```
swift/utils/build-script --preset=buildbot_linux,no_assertions,no_test install_destdir=/tmp installable_package=/tmp/swift-5.9-amazonlinux2023.tar.gz
```

## Bootstrapping swift 5.9 with swift 5.8

Once the swift 5.8. toolchain has been built it can be used to bootstrap the swift 5.9 build.

To do this we will need to patch the `AddSwift.cmake` file because of changes to `lld-13`.
Use this patch `nostart-stop-gc-5.9.patch`

## Dependencies Needed for Swift Installation

```sh
dnf -y install \
binutils \
gcc \
git \
glibc-static \
gzip \
libbsd \
libcurl-devel \
libedit \
libicu \
libstdc++-static \
libuuid \
libxml2-devel \
sqlite \
tar \
tzdata \
unzip \
zip
```
